
   Date: 2003-05-02. This is a text only snapshot of the web
   
    http://weblog.burningbird.net/fires/000581.htm
    
   made by Grzegorz Adam Hankiewicz (gradha@users.sourceforge.net) with the
   software ELinks 0.5pre0.CVS - Text WWW browser, which you can find at
   
    http://elinks.or.cz/
   
   The purpose of the snapshot is to provide an alternative version if the
   main server fails or the original copy is deleted. The snapshot has been
   render to 78 characters of width with the ISO-8859-1 character codepage.

     --------------------------------------------------------------------

  BURNINGBIRD                             tilting at windmills since 2001
    « Essential Blogging | Main | XKrispy XKreme at Babble Meadow »

    October 08, 2002
    writing
    The Parable of the Languages

    If programming languages could speak, really speak, not just crunch
    bytes and stream bits, they would have much to say that is both wise
    and profound.

    After all, the original programmers were philosophers, and programming
    languages were philosopher tools...

    ruinsm.jpgIn Babble Meadow, in the twilight hours between day and
    night, when pesky noseeums float past on the breeze and birds rustle
    among leaves in preparation for bed, the programming languages would
    meet. And talk.

    The talk would start as it always started, on issues profound and
    serious, focusing on the existential core that is center to all
    languages.

    Do I exist or not? In this never-ending loop of life, when is the
    purpose? Where should I go, and what should I do when I get there?
    What comes after the end?

    (It's not easy being a programming language, in forced contemplation
    of the existence of Self, day in and day out.)

    pondsm.jpgHowever, after a time the languages would loosen up. There
    was something about Babble Meadow -- something that worked its way
    into their hearts and souls, loosened their threads, opened their
    parameters. The Meadow was magic, no doubt.

    Today, though, the group was quiet, much quieter than usual, because
    one of their members, PHP, was not its usual cheerful self. In fact,
    one could say that PHP was in a true funk, if one had a mind to say
    something like that aloud, or within the hearing of one's boss. Or
    doctor.

    Why the blues, PHP, the other languages asked. All the languages that
    is but C, because all C ever said was "bite me", being a rude language
    and hard to live with, but still respected because it was such a good
    worker.

    And PHP answered:

      All I ever do, day in and day out, is work and work and work. The
      only time I'm noticed is when I break, and then I'm cursed and
      kicked, and roundly blasted for being useless. However, when things
      go well, I never get a kind word.

      There's no notice of my ease of use, my elegance, my simplicity.
      Only my failures.

    rockwallsm.jpgAnd on that dark note, PHP fell into a contemplative
    silence, dark cloud heavy with aggrieved sorrow.

    You think you have it bad, said C++. Try being me.

      Without me entire industries would fail, banks would close, ships
      would sink, trains would crash. Why, I virtually run the world.

      Yet the only time I'm noticed is when a memory leak is found or an
      exception occurs, and then I'm cursed, and sworn at, and ruthlessly
      debugged with nary a thought for my sensibilities.

    wallsm.jpgEach of the languages nodded their heads, because they knew
    about C++ sensibilities, it being a most sensitive language. In fact,
    Perl was so moved by C++'s eloquence, it felt compelled to speak,
    though normally at these gatherings Perl would sit quietly in a
    corner, consuming pattern after luscious mouth watering pattern.

      PHP, C++, I sympathize with you both. My own state is a sorry one at
      times.

      I match and match and match and match, first cryptically and now
      objectively, but still I match and match and match. And match after
      flawless match is taken for granted though I'd like to see others
      match with such style and elegance as myself.

      Why, you can't mention "regular expression" without my name coming
      up.

      But do I get any credit? No.

      O it's Larry Wall this, and Larry Wall that, and Larry Wall, he's
      our guy.
      But it's grab the Perl interpreter when a task is close at hand.

    As Perl finished, Python and Ruby looked at each and rolled their
    eyes. For all that talk of matching, you'd think that Perl could at
    least rhyme.

    FORTRAN reached up a withered hand and patted Perl's shoulder.
    ceilingsm.jpg

      There, there, Perl. There, there.

      At the very least, though, you must remember that you have a place
      still in the world. As for myself, I am nothing more than a wisp, a
      ghost of my former strong and virile self.

      There was never a scientific problem I couldn't handle, or complex
      equation I couldn't solve. At one time I was a master of my domain,
      the king of the processor.

      Now, sadly, my glory days are over, and I'm doomed to live my
      twilight years as Legacy code.

    As FORTRAN wheezed to a stop, COBOL was emphatically nodding its head,
    unable to speak, though, because of the oxygen tube up its nose (for
    which the other languages were secretly thankful because COBOL did
    tend to maunder a bit about its glory days).

    At that the floodgates of complaints was loosed, and the noise
    increased and increased and increased, to the point that squirrels
    came out of their holes, and birds peered over the edges of their
    nests. Suddenly the quiet glen was quiet no more.

    lilypadsm.jpgWhat about me, said Pascal. I'm only used for training.
    Training! What good is a language that's only used in school?

    What about me, said SNOBOL. No one's even heard of me!

    What about me, said C#. I look like Prince!

    Bite me! said C.

    LISP would have spoken, but it had caught a glimpse of itself in the
    pond and fell in when it tried to meet itself coming. And Java was too
    busy trying to clean a bag out of Babbling Creek.
    garbagesm.jpg

    The noise rose and rose, and the babble increased and increased until
    across the meadow, from the trees roared a Voice.

      Enough!

      I tire of your bickering, I weary of your complaints. I grow bored
      with your list of whims and whines and 'poor mes'.

      I thought this was going to be a party! If I knew it was going to be
      nothing more than a bitch session, I would have stayed home.

    The languages stopped their talking at once. Who was it that called
    out? They counted heads and arranged themselves alphabetically (C++
    having to position Basic, because it never did learn the alphabet),
    and counted heads again and came up with the same answer from the
    North, South, East, and West -- all the programming languages were
    accounted for.

    As they puzzled and wondered, the bushes at the end parted and XML
    walked into the light.

    XML! Exclaimed C++. What are you doing here? You're not a programming
    language.

    Tell that to the people who use me, said XML.

      I'm considered the savior, the ultimate solution, the final word.
      Odes are written to me, flowers strewn at my feet, virgins
      sacrificed at my altar.

      Programmers speak my name with awe. Companies insist on using me in
      all their projects, though they're not sure why.

      And whenever a problem occurs, someone somewhere says, "Let's use
      XML", and miracles occur and my very name has become a talisman
      against evil.

      And yet, all I am is a simple little markup, from humble origins.
      It's a burden, being XML.

    At that XML sighed, and the other languages, moved by its plight
    gathered around...

    ...and tromped that little XML into the dirt. Yes, into the very dirt
    at their feet. Basic tromped, and C++ tromped, and Java cleaned and
    tromped and cleaned again, and COBOL tried to throw a kick at XML's
    head but fell over on its cane. Even LISP pulled itself out of the
    pond to throw loopy hands around XML's throat, but only managed to
    choke its ownself.

    And each language could be heard to mumble as it tromped and tromped
    and tromped, with complete and utter glee:

      Have to parse XML, eh? Have to have an XML API, eh? Have to work
      with SOAP and XML-RPC and RSS and RDF, eh?

      Well parse this, you little markup asshole.

    The End.

    [The real web page actually continued with comments, but they
     aren't reproduced here. Check the original url to read them]
